Through his champers windows Serious was looking over the castle town.  His hands clapping behind his back; his expression heavy with concern.  In the center his wife Clara was standing with her hands raised, surrounded by a chanting circle.  A powerful shining aura was channelling through her body into thin air. 
Outside the siege was ongoing. Shilimimdar's forces were still pressing against the walls while his mighty eagle archers were spreading death from above. He looked at  Clara. So far her coving attempt to summon elf archers keeping flying forces at bay and most of the enemy off the walls was successful . But Clara looked tired, drained out; He knew time was running thin. 
The king bowed his head. Avaroth used to be a peacefull land, polulated by scholars and tradesmen. Any quarrels  the kingdoms had between them were settled by mere dialogue and no ruler, so far, had the ambition to gain power over others. In fact  all of them always united against common enemies coming from the surrounding seas.  The coastal cities, powerfull in water magic would command the water elements, create storms and fearfull marine creatures crashing any attempt while, at the same time, giving the inland forces time to prepare. This made Avaroth a formitable fortress.
Shilimindar's portal right in the center of the land came as a surprise.  A dreadfull surprice. His forces passed  through endlessly, capturing first the vilages  surounded by the faragos mountains, the two entrances to the center of the mountains  and the guard posts on the higher peaks. 
The kingdom leaders where devastated. Some of them strongly believed that the enemy had help from the inside throwing accusations arround. The fact of the matter was that such powerfull portal  needed continued  channeling from both dimensions for an army to pass through. Others believed that the entry position was not at random and wondered how he'd even know about the morphology of the ground..
Messages where flying through the windows endlessly but most comunications were confused and spitefull and very little was happening for defence. Seriuse's kingdom Thralmar was the first to be attacked; being a small trade town and closest to Faragos was easy pray. His last comunication showed that Amorgos the leader of his neighbouring kingdom was coming to his aid. But that wasn't going to happen any time soon. 
The situatiom in Tralmar was dire. The moment shilimindar's movement became known Serius ordered the population  to withdraw  behind the walls. Then reluctantly ordered his shamans to command the earthen element and raise the whole city and walls on an earthen petestal. Shilimindar's archers could not hit over the wall but could easyly injure the youngest of his dragons that disobeyed his orders to stay within the walls. The wait was agonisingly long.
His thoughts where interrupted by voices in the main halls announsing the return of the scout druids he had sent out later. Rushing out he saw one of the scouts on the floor heavily injured, the other bent down holding his knees panting.
- My lord! the scout spoke and paused. My lord...he tried one more time.
- Spill it out soldier! , the king shouted impatiently almost sure about the kind of news he was about to hear.
- My lord we saw great siege machines passing through the portals and great ogre giants  heading  this way. They should be here at night fall. 
Serius did not have time to react when his thought was interrupted again. 
- My lord...
- What! he yelled vissibly upset!
- My lord! We spotted forces trying to flank  Sathrath.
Serius heart sank, but had no other choice
- Fly, he said. Fly and warn Sathath. Tell them to defend their own.
The scout turns at the window and with a leap he morphs into a crow and flew away. At that moment the other druid was drawing his last breath. 
 - Take him to the priests, he ordered , his soul belongs to the gods now.
He knew now that no help was coming. The rest of the kingdoms not only distrust  each other they were also further away. Looking out of the window he looked his last hope flying away.
The hours passed. An eerie atmosphere was laying over the town. Shilumindar's flying forces loosen their attacks  and his wife Clara and  the mages had time to rest. The summoning circle has taken its toll to everyone but more to his wife which was the center. 
Every now and then the roars of his captured dragon was echoing from down below, as a costant reminder if their presence . In the distance the ogre drums and war shouts were now audible, geting louder as the time passed.
He sat at the edge of the bed and put his wife hand in his. He looked at her. She looked as if she was a decade older. The rest of the mages now were discussing the possibility of saving themselves through  small portals or teleports. He wasnt very happy about it. The notion if saving thyself with all he civilians terrified in the grounds below... Thats when the  good news  flew in. 
- Help is coming my lord the scout shouted. Sathrath forces turned back. They will try and hit the enemy in the back at the mesa-horia plains. Four of their largest dragons remained and waiting in hiding for the right moment . Twelve of the their oldest mages are with them. Sir, we can evacuate the whole town.
Serius knew that the events reached to a point of large resorts.  He rushed outside! He first needed to create a way for the dragons to fly in . He run to the walls ordering  the archers and all the shamans to follow. Once he reached  he sent message to all the priests to leave the temples and gather in the grounds along the walls. Under his command the priest started casting and maintain devine shields  protecting whoever was above .Then from higher grounds he indicated twelve different spots in the town and ordered the population to equally split to them. 
He looked at the archers.. "They are not enough " he though and his eye focused on the higly flammable oil still boiling along the walls. Now we are talking.
The shamans started calling the elements.  Thick fog started accumulating on top of the battlefield. Flaming arrows started falling from the walls causing minor confusion to the enemy troops. And then it started. The fiery rain felll through the fog burning anything that was flammable; tends, harboon machines, armor; The troops did not know where to hide. Some lifted their wooden shields to the sky but that was no permanent solution. In the back the orc general was yelling on the top of his voice "Stand fast! Stand fast! Ordering the first ariving giants to attack the walls with any means possible. The plan of droping the big pots from above infusing the oil with dragon fire created the comotion needed for the mages to enter the courtyard. Enough time was also given to the dragons to rescue their kin and spread more damage.
In thralmar the evacuation plan was at its last phase. Twelve major portals to Sathrath were created and the populations slowly slowly entered. Heavy boulders from the siege machines destroyed parts of the castle and the lower parts of the walls. 
By the time Shilimindar's troops marched into Thralmar, the town was in ruins but empty. Runors have it the General Navgim responsible for the attack was executed upon delivering the news...
This the story of The Great Escape of Serius and his people that lead to his great deeds in the battle at the plains of mesa-horia.
Ch.E